Techstars 312: Actually not good
Techstars 312: works. We we actually ended up getting possibly acquired. A few years later we moved here, and I've been here ever since. So I've been here for a long time.
Techstars 312: I've done a bunch of startups.
Techstars 312: My current company is called about 8 years. Basically, all we do is sales and go to market setup for you. I used to be someone just like you. It's kind of like circle, and we've done close to a hundred 30 companies. Where we come where we jump in, we build out their work environment for sales. So we put together the tools there. There's a bunch of data workflows we use now
Techstars 312: put in their Crm emails polls. Any of that stuff.
Techstars 312: And our whole goal
Techstars 312: is close. My chaos, that's great. We try to get up to a million or 2 million revenue, but more important than the dollars of revenue. We try to build a repeatable system. So- so the dollars are a little bit less important. What we want to do is find repeatability, because usually
Techstars 312: sales is where you start. And it's not that you're pulling on relationships. You're using every trick in the book. You're also often just
Techstars 312: think of things differently. But we'd like to figure out a way with our clients to get them to a point where
Techstars 312: some higher can also do that. And- and I think the biggest, most valuable thing for the shareholder, for the business is
Techstars 312: what does like what's a monthly output for a regular salesperson? Not account. Because once you get that building block, you can actually model that figure out. You know how much pipeline are you gonna build every month you can build quotas, you can build expectations for your hires once you sort of know what that output is per month. You can model that forward. You can say, Hey, if I have more people, this will happen. This is how long it takes to ramp. Once you start to see those deals that you source that like source from
Techstars 312: the outside world, not from your relationships, your contacts. Again, those are helpful. Use them, but they're not going to help you past a certain point, because you're going to run out of it. So we want to do is. Figure out how long it takes for a totally cold source deal to close. And then again, you can model out all the way to 10 million 100 million like this is honestly what even the big companies do. And even giant companies out there
Techstars 312: have armies of people doing exactly this stuff that we're gonna talk about today. So it never ends. It's not the most glamorous stuff. I'll say that right now. It's like
Techstars 312: pretty hardcore. You make phone calls and emails. You're gonna know a ton of times. But honestly, like even the big, the-, the big companies out there like we work closely with.
Techstars 312: And all these big companies. They've got armies of folks out there doing exactly the same type of stuff to try and build pipeline and
Techstars 312: other businesses.
Techstars 312: So that's what we're gonna talk about. We
Techstars 312: do a couple of other things as well. That's my business partner. She's on here as well. She'll get into some of the some of the really tactical stuff.
Techstars 312: But that's kind of what you does. We, you know, set up systems, we staff in people of our own faster that way, and if our client companies want to hire them they can. So that's kind of option. And again, the big goal is around finding repeatability in sales. And then, once you have that repeatability modeling that forward to today or get to whatever milestone is that you need to get to.
Techstars 312: we also invest. So we make a big part of what we do. We're not. But we write small text sometimes in the companies when we see them really start to take off.
Techstars 312: and we do a little bit of fundraising coaching, too. So we have a whole seminar on how to raise companies, and we'll do some sort of
Techstars 312: kind of like one off advisory. Sometimes, if a company really wants to work with this closely, I have a whole sort of framework on how to get acquired to. If you don't do like an early acquisition.
Techstars 312: it's a lot more complicated than a lot of people think. My very 1st job was in merchant acquisition. So
Techstars 312: so that's what we do. Most of our clients are. B, 2 B, so if you're B to C,
Techstars 312: it might not be as relevant, but at least just for for revenue. It is very relevant for everything else, including fundraising, including partnership acquisition.
Techstars 312: And then for really anything else.
Techstars 312: So that's- that's kind of a really quick overview. What do you wanna give a quick intro on yourself and into some
Techstars 312: into some material.
Laura Garrison: Yeah. Wonderful great to see you all can. Can you just confirm that you can hear me? Okay.
Techstars 312: Yep, yeah. We got you. Now.
Laura Garrison: Alright. I've got a little bit of echo.
Laura Garrison: I think it. Actually, I think it just went away. I think we're good. And you guys
Laura Garrison: say it again.
Techstars 312: If we can't hear it. Okay, wonderful.
Laura Garrison: And you can see my screen. Darwinian ventures track record.
Laura Garrison: Okay, perfect. My, my technical questions are are complete. I'm ready to go then. It's great to meet you guys. My name is Laura Garrison as Andrew mentioned. Run, run the go to market business here at Darwinian. I've been here 4 years, and I've worked with
Laura Garrison: about
Laura Garrison: 30, 35 startups to date. Just helping them create a repeatable sales process so that they can scale
Laura Garrison: or get get get purchased right? So that's kind of the the 2 things that that I work on here. What I love is creating frameworks and creating like actionable content that you guys can can take right away. And so what what we've done today is we've shifted the content
Laura Garrison: that we would normally give to like a founder with a team or a founder with their own like full time. Bdr sourcing, you know, sourcing deals for them and opportunities for them. And we've created something that is going to be
Laura Garrison: directly actionable for you like today. So feel free to take screenshots. Of anything that's up here. I've got a lot of checklists and frameworks. So if if we're good, I'm gonna kind of jump into the content here.
Laura Garrison: And if anyone has questions, someone probably is gonna have to either put it in the chat because I cannot hear very well like the room super echoey. So if you've got questions, I'll need a I'll need an interpreter. Please
Laura Garrison: alright cool. So here's what we're gonna cover. Today we're gonna dive into
Laura Garrison: As I mentioned the say, it again.
Techstars 312: Yeah. Can you hear me? Yeah.
Laura Garrison: What I was gonna say was, I can sort of help repeat questions back. But what I wanted to do before we jump into the content is, just get a quick lay of the land, and and let these folks introduce themselves, and just get a sense for where they're at.
Techstars 312: Just so that we sort of know who we're talking to. It'd be really helpful. And and usually what we try to do is like, pull some examples and do some case studies and stuff like that.
Techstars 312: So if any of you are running into anything and you want to go through it. Chances are a lot of folks in the room are running through the same thing. So get together.
Techstars 312: So yeah, we'd love to. Are you guys all?
Techstars 312: Ron. Okay, well, I'd love to, for each of the founding teams would love to just get a quick order really short of what you're doing and what your revenue level is, and
Techstars 312: I think that's probably about it. Maybe who your buyer is. That would be good just to see sort of
Techstars 312: what you know already.
Techstars 312: So please go ahead, and my name is Alex.
Techstars 312: We have sold it to higher ed institutions like colleges, universities in France. That's why, in the example I think somebody introductions
Techstars 312: some phone calls, and I think one of the things that I'm looking for here is more about like setting like messaging, of course, but also setting up things that can do everything from one
Techstars 312: to save time and money.
Techstars 312: We've had to do about 3 or 4
Techstars 312: in the sales process. You have to make a lot of people calls.
Techstars 312: Vendors are perfect.
Techstars 312: We're from sales. And so sales software for strategic selling and looks like all the same groups and
Techstars 312: 520.
Techstars 312: But yeah, I think the time to actually prospect, not necessarily because so like, so like, want to do.
Techstars 312: yeah, looked at this.
Techstars 312: Don't know if I know any of those we believe.
Techstars 312: and then, as well as the invoicing part right now, I guess revenues negligible. We're still very early stage, most of our sales motion navigator. And then we did email marketing campaign. But I think for us,
Techstars 312: it's a couple of things one is like, think the or like the messaging is one thing that we
Techstars 312: alright
Techstars 312: settings.
Techstars 312: My background is haven't done much selling after that have been watching.
Techstars 312: Yeah.
Techstars 312: Think it's
Techstars 312: 50.
Techstars 312: Think it's not always on the phone, a random project or Meta.
Techstars 312: Unlike events I like this, quote
Techstars 312: any of the other data.
Techstars 312: Come on.
Ankur Toshniwal: Hi, my name's Ankur. We Andrew and I are co-founders of harvest. We help insights, based software products, automate their extensive web research using browser agents.
Ankur Toshniwal: And we when it comes to kind of go to market. Yeah, we we do a lot of outreach. A lot of that in the beginning was to even like, kind of understand our direct segment. And now we're we're starting to hone in on that. A lot of cold emails and a lot of
Ankur Toshniwal: outreach with warm intros.
Chloe Lannert: Right Trina.
Trina Das: Yeah, Hi, I'm Trina. I'm running. A company called Trains Trends is actually making radiologists and pathologists read like radiology reports much faster, with far more accuracy. And we are targeting diagnostic labs in New Jersey, Newark region, doing 3 specific blood smear and imaging tests.
Trina Das: The way we are reaching out is through warm intros in networks and trying to get our clients referred to other labs. We haven't found a lot of success with cold emailing the labs, but we would love to learn like how we can incorporate some of these techniques or strategies in our specific case.
Trina Das: Thank you.
Techstars 312: It's actually pretty B to B heavy, and it sounds like there's real fraction. And I'd love to sort of some of that. But that's all portable stuff. So
Techstars 312: okay, Laura, back over to you. Sorry. Now we know who we're talking to.
Laura Garrison: No, no problem at all. Okay, awesome. Thank you so much, guys, for kind of taking us through that. So now we'll get to to the agenda and what we're gonna what we're going to dive into today. So again, this is specifically for early stage founders, I was able to take a look at the lookbook that Chloe sent over, and I see that
Laura Garrison: you know you guys have a team surrounding you, but it sounds like sales is all on your shoulders. So we're gonna go through a framework that that Darwinian uses. So we'll start with kind of debunking. What makes cold most cold outreach fail. I'll show you exactly what to do instead. We'll walk through that 3 by 3 framework, which is our go to structure right now for crafting.
Laura Garrison: short messaging. That is kind of like
Laura Garrison: high signal. And I'll and I'll talk to you about that, too. That's gonna get get great replies. And then from here we'll break down the 5 elements of founder messaging that consistently convert. So even without fancy design, intent data, big, huge list, you can still create some great messaging that converts. Then we're gonna look at how to scale
Laura Garrison: for right now without losing your voice. So it's a little different than than how we've maybe presented this content in the past. But we think it's a good way to kind of lock on to this early traction.
Laura Garrison: and following up
Laura Garrison: like a human like yourself, leaning into that piece to find out if your messaging is actually working, then we're gonna put it all into action. So we've collected cold messages from you guys or Chloe has. So if you sent those in before yesterday, we're gonna break those down live. We're gonna look at what's working. What's missing? I spent a couple of hours today yesterday digging through those and providing some great well, hopefully, will be great feedback for you guys, and some some small tweaks
Laura Garrison: to to hopefully unlock some, some traction for you, and then we'll go through kind of a self check that you can use on those messagings going forward. So at the end of the session, you're gonna have a complete system for founder led outbound. So from your 1st send to your 5, th follow up. What do I do? If they're not responding? How do I know this is working? How you know what are the best ways to make tweaks? All without sounding like a robot. So let's let's jump in
Laura Garrison: all right. So
Laura Garrison: these might be a little uncomfortable in terms of of the truths related to why outbound fails. Most cold, outbound fails.
Laura Garrison: it's not because you're not charismatic. It's not because you're not ultra smart. It's just
Laura Garrison: knowing the rules of the game. So you may just be playing the wrong game. So you're trying to scale
Laura Garrison: the impossible. You're relying on intros, your brand
Laura Garrison: SEO that maybe hasn't fully had time to mature yet. But when you're in that early stage, you know, under a million arr, you've got one job. Basically, you want to create conversations with people that have your problem.
Laura Garrison: That's it. So you don't need a 20 step cadence.
Laura Garrison: You need a message
Laura Garrison: that hits you need a process that doesn't rely on luck. And that's what this workshop is going to be about. So
Laura Garrison: this is what outbound feels like when you are the product owner, recruiter, CEO, all, all of the things at one time. So let me show you what one of these emails I'm talking about looks like
Laura Garrison: we call it the 3 by 3. So it's 3 reasons that they'll reply, and 3 lines to say it in. So
Laura Garrison: in this case, the the question, the 3 questions you're gonna answer are, why you? Why me? Why now?
Laura Garrison: Why you why me? Why now? So why you in this case. Just saw you raised a seed seed round. So there's your signal.
Laura Garrison: It's going to imply new pressure right for them to grow faster.
Laura Garrison: Why, me?
Laura Garrison: Usually it means go to market is on your radar, and that's where we help. So you're anticipating that there's a problem that often follows the trigger, and then why, now, is it worth a quick chat? So you've got a soft desk?
Laura Garrison: It's low friction. You'll hear me talk about this more, and you're not
Laura Garrison: pitching a demo. You're inviting that relevance.
Laura Garrison: Right? So you don't
Laura Garrison: have to have a clever subject line. You don't need a long signature. You don't need
Laura Garrison: Hope you're doing well, right? This just needs to be relevant to the right now.
Laura Garrison: So showing, you know, showing you guys how to think like a prospect, and that edge is going to be psychological. That's where that's kind of one of the approaches that we always take. So you know your train. You're
Laura Garrison: this training is gonna be
Laura Garrison: creating your message in terms of business impact, not the features of your product, right?
Laura Garrison: No one really cares what the solution is
Laura Garrison: initially, it's just, Hey, I have this pain, and
Laura Garrison: you know I want to solve it. So it's going to get them to ask about what that is so. This is the the breakdown of the of the framework. It's a backbone of every cold message that we build at Darwinian, and you've seen something similar to before. Right? It's
Laura Garrison: this is a common framework. We've just kind of adapted it for founder usage, because
Laura Garrison: most founders don't have a known brand, and your pitch is shifting like what weekly daily
Laura Garrison: you know, as you're trying to find what resonates. So this is the core structure I was talking about. Why you so this is your, this is your hook to relevancy.
Laura Garrison: Did you see something in, you know in their world that triggered this email so that could be job change funding a new hire, something that they posted.
Laura Garrison: You know, online. Why, me connect that trigger to the problem that they're likely having.
Laura Garrison: and then offer that one line insight as to how you could help. I'm going to flip back for a second and show you this. I always say a great. A great 1st email looks like the letter F,
Laura Garrison: so you have a line and a space and another line and a space, and then a short line at the bottom, right? So if it looks like an F,
Laura Garrison: then you get an A, maybe we'll we'll see what what goes into it.
Laura Garrison: And then the the why now?
Laura Garrison: that you want this to be frictionless, so something easy. Are you open to learning more? Can we? Can we chat for 30 min, maybe not even 30 min, maybe that's a little bit a little bit too much or a little bit.
Laura Garrison: aggressive, you know, and and we're kind of taught to to ask that thing. You know, for 30 min.
Laura Garrison: So
Laura Garrison: what makes a great outbound messages that actually convert so let's stop thinking about outbound as getting someone to buy something.
Laura Garrison: because that's not what it is right. Anybody want to take a stab at what that 1st message is about.
Laura Garrison: What are you trying to generate, or what are you trying to start?
Laura Garrison: Just just a conversation? Right?
Laura Garrison: You're not going to sell them anything. You're not going to close them anything. You just you literally want a response, right? Even if that response is like.
Laura Garrison: kick rocks. Right? Okay, cool, great. I'll I'll you know. I'll I'll reach out to someone else. But
Laura Garrison: You know, it's not trying to get you to convert. It's just trying to get you to start a conversation. So one that is going to be rooted in like, what's the shared pain? What's the aligned timing? What's the you know? That's kind of the 1st thing to to understand. So your goal is not to get someone to buy your goal is to get someone to say.
Laura Garrison: Huh, yeah, that's actually interesting. I've I've dealt with that. Tell me more.
Laura Garrison: Right? So
Laura Garrison: when your message leads with you know I'd love to book you 30 book 30 min. I'd love to show you a demo. You're trying to close on that 1st meeting or on that 1st handshake. And it's rarely gonna work at this stage, right? You are trying to schedule some time with them and things like that. But
Laura Garrison: it's a little forward, so open with insight.
Laura Garrison: close with close, with that curiosity. Right?
Laura Garrison: Your your messaging should be written for one person, not a persona. So you may write your initial messaging based on a persona. Right? So you've kind of got your your core message, but then you want to take it a step further and write it for the person. And that's usually your trigger, right? It's going to be specific to that to the person inside of that that persona.
Laura Garrison: So there's a huge difference between.
Laura Garrison: we help operation. We help OP. Ops leads optimize workflow efficiency. Right? So, couple, that next to hey, I just saw that you stepped into new a new director of Operations role.
Laura Garrison: I bet I bet the systems audit is already killing your calendar. Right? So you're kind of saying the same thing. But the second one is going to be built to the person not built to the, to the persona. So the second, that second
Laura Garrison: example sounds like it was built for the person, and that's why it works
Laura Garrison: right. Other characteristics of outbound that converts is gonna be that it leads with the pain, not the pitch. So
Laura Garrison: every startup says what they do.
Laura Garrison: almost none say what they solve for.
Laura Garrison: So you're not selling tracking software. You're selling recovery from billing leakage right?
Laura Garrison: When you describe the pain. First, st people will want to know what you've built all right. It offered.
Techstars 312: Real quick. What does this remind you of?
Techstars 312: To me?
Techstars 312: Jobs? Everything is jobs which is just like that.
Laura Garrison: Cool, nice
Laura Garrison: so great outbound that converts is gonna offer a reason to care right now. So even if your product is great, it's not gonna matter unless it's connected to timing.
Laura Garrison: So again, what's changed? Did they hire someone new? Did they launch a product? Did they lose a deal? Did they raise around? Did
Laura Garrison: regulations in the space shift? Right? So understanding that
Laura Garrison: urgency isn't pressure, it's it's relevance in context, right? That's how you create that that urgency. And then, finally, this is going to sound like a human, like a founder, not a funnel so outbound that is going to convert sounds like a real person wrote it. You can be imperfect, you can be honest.
Laura Garrison: you can even swear not looking at anyone in the room who has the F bomb in their 1st email, and we'll get to that later. But I absolutely love it. Because it fits the brand right? So if that's not who you are. Don't do it.
Laura Garrison: but
Laura Garrison: you know, don't default to emails that sound like, I hope this finds you well, I'm reaching out, because unless that's who you are right, and
Laura Garrison: it's probably a great way to get ignored. But that's probably not you. That's a hubspot ghost that's saying, hope this finds you. Well, I'm reaching out, because so your founder voice is going to be your edge. And at this stage you should lean into that and use that founder voice. So the kind of Key point here. The best outbound doesn't try to win the deal. It earns the reply.
Laura Garrison: Alright. So let's talk about kind of zoom out and show you a pattern that we see over and over, whether the messages
Laura Garrison: good, bad, or, you know, on the edge of of glory. Here there are 5 elements that we see show up consistently in outbound messaging that gets responses, especially from early stage founders without a brand, without a team, without Sdr support.
Laura Garrison: If your message has 3 or more of these, you're in the game right? And, by the way, you guys, your messaging looks looks really good. So a lot of these get hit on, and I'll go through these specifically and show you where you really nailed it, and then some ways to tune it up. Specifically. But if you're hitting all 5, you're probably booking meetings, so we'll go through some examples. I'll keep referring back to these. But think of this as kind of your your checklist.
Laura Garrison: So number one. The fastest way to prove the messages for me is by having trigger-based relevance
Laura Garrison: again to trigger something that's happened recently funding around new hire. We've kind of gone through those, maybe even a change in the tech stack.
Laura Garrison: so example would be, hey? I saw that you're hiring your 1st Cx lead. It usually means that churn is is creeping into the dashboard right.
Techstars 312: Alright. Thank you.
Techstars 312: How do you balance being that short.
Techstars 312: having some personalization? So if you're in some kind of personalization ground, just call me back
Techstars 312: hundreds of funds raises around. So it's personalized exactly. And then adding some kind of like proof that your social work with.
Techstars 312: So I'm just wondering about how you're thinking about the balance between adding more personalization to email and then keeping it really concise.
Techstars 312: Yeah, I can. Well, I can just give my thoughts, I think. And then, if you have some examples too. But
Techstars 312: the one, the one thing I was gonna I was even thinking about adding this to what she was saying earlier. The way that you think about this is
Techstars 312: You're not selling yourself. You're not selling your product. You're not selling really much at all at the beginning. You're really.
Techstars 312: You're not well, you're sort of selling a 30 min meeting, but even at the very beginning you're not even selling that you're just trying to get a reply like she said it there pretty well. You're just trying to earn the right to reply.
Techstars 312: I think a lot of people will make the mistake of
Techstars 312: like trying to skip some steps and trying to close the deal and say, like, Hey, we're great. We do this, we do this, we do this, we work with these guys, these guys, these guys, our product, does this this.
Techstars 312: what a no brainer like, please be with me, and that really, that that doesn't help as much as you might think. So you're right. I mean, maybe if there's a really short way to add a little bit of relevance to it.
Techstars 312: That's great. But really what you're and then the other thing is targeting. So if you target
Techstars 312: people who just raised a seed round.
Techstars 312: Many of them might not want to talk. Many of them, maybe, are sales leaders themselves, like they're not really your buyer, like, at least in that example. They're maybe not your buyer, anyways.
Techstars 312: but a few of them will, at the very least reply. And that's really what you're trying to optimize, for you're trying to optimize for someone who happens to be stressing about that exact problem at that exact time, and they'll get, they'll get back and say, Hey, tell me more, and they'll even tell you like, hey! Who you work with it like? Prove it to me like, how do you do it. Who do you work with? Do you have any references whatever? And just that reply like that takes 2 seconds on an iphone, you know, and then you're then you're playing ball, and then you can answer the question.
Techstars 312: And so in the beginning, you're just trying to sell. You're not trying to sell anything. You're just trying to get them to reply. And even then you're still not trying to sell them much. And people fall into this trap all you're trying to sell them on is taking 10 min on a quick
Techstars 312: intro call right? And even then you're not really necessarily trying to close them. You're trying to sell them on the fact that maybe you actually understand the problem. So it's all about incremental steps. It's kind of like
Techstars 312: being a friend or dating, or anything like that. You can't. You can't skip to the end, and whenever you try to do that you'll you'll you'll find yourself putting too much
Techstars 312: data, too much content in there, and it'll it'll turn people off. So, Laura, I don't know if you had something you want to add to that. But that was just. That was my thought.
Laura Garrison: Yeah.
Techstars 312: Yeah.
Laura Garrison: I'll I'll say, stay tuned, because the like. The 1st example I gave was very short, but the examples I'll give you moving forward do have a little bit more meat on the bone. I just wanted to give like something really, really simple for the 1st example. But I I'm hearing what you're saying like.
Laura Garrison: hey? It may not be enough, because other people may be sending that same type of message. So you've gotta you've got to hit on your relevance, and it doesn't have to be a case study. It can just be one sentence, so I'll I will show you that. It kind of as we go through the exercise. So those are 2 2 really great.
Laura Garrison: really great questions, and agree with what you're saying. There, Andrew, for sure.
Ankur Toshniwal: I I sorry I had another one. I don't know if you guys are, gonna get to it. But subject lines is that something you guys talk about later. Then I don't. I don't wanna ask.
Laura Garrison: I. I give some examples. But we actually don't talk about about subject lines. We we can. I mean, you know, there's a lot out there. It's a lot of just testing, you know, to see what's resonating, because I don't think I think there are definite knows, you know, like you don't want, like all the trigger words right? That that trigger, the spam filter. You don't want to use those you don't want to use a bunch of emojis. Right?
Laura Garrison: You don't want to do like all caps or a bunch of punctuation, but I think I think I think the subject lines are about testing.
Ankur Toshniwal: Gotcha. So the 3 wise do. Is there any one of the any one of those that's most particularly like useful in the subject line, because you probably only have space for like one? Or is it just not connected to those.
Laura Garrison: No, I think it can be. I mean, I think you can maybe come up with a list that you want to test.
Laura Garrison: And what I talk about a little bit later is the, you know. Obviously, it's tied to the open rate. Open rates. You don't really want to track them anymore. So you want to do it sparingly, like, maybe just on day one to kind of see where it's tracking. So I talk a little bit about about testing that, but not specifically about hey? How to fashion a great subject line. But I've got some recommendations for you guys, are you? Tell me the name of your company again. Are you harvest.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, I think I've I've got yours in here so we can. We can kind of go through some things I recommend. But but truly, you know, it. Subject lines really are just just try and see.
Laura Garrison: You know what comes back.
Laura Garrison: Thanks for the questions, though, guys.
Laura Garrison: So I think just finishing up the trigger base part.
Techstars 312: Any question about open rates.
Techstars 312: Yeah, open rates can can. Yeah. Do you want to go through that real quick just on open rates, Laura, like you can't always
Techstars 312: They're not the most reliable. Yes.
Laura Garrison: Yeah. So so sign the the way that it works is.
Laura Garrison: excuse me, Shady at best, because it's just based on a pixel that's in the email, and if that pixel gets scrolled past, it registers as an open. So essentially, someone could leave a message in their inbox scroll past it 20 times, and it registers 20 opens right? So Hubspot doesn't even offer a report when they use. They don't even offer a report around open rates, because it's
Laura Garrison: not a super reliable metric. Also, the email could be opened by spam filters and things like that and and trigger open. So not really a great a great indicator it can be an indicator of.
Laura Garrison: If you're landing in the inbox.
Laura Garrison: Right? That that may. If if your emails aren't being opened at all. You may not be landing in the inbox, but in the last, like 5 or 6 months.
Laura Garrison: the that pixel has been associated with like phishing attempts. And so a lot of or that type of of technology. And so it's triggering a lot of spam filters just because you have open rates turned on. It was kind of working against you in that way. So that's why we don't recommend using them anymore. And if you do, just make it for a short test one day, maybe 20 cents, just to kind of stick your toe in the water and and see what comes back, but not long term tracking.
Techstars 312: Yeah. Any other questions.
Laura Garrison: Okay, cool, sorry guys. I don't mean to talk over you. I just cannot hear.
Techstars 312: Yeah, yeah.
Laura Garrison: Okay, perfect. So.
Techstars 312: Wrapping up.
Laura Garrison: Based relevance. What this is going to separate you from is like you want to get out of that. I help companies like yours crowd right? You don't want to be in that group. You want people to think you know what this person did. 45 seconds of research on me.
Laura Garrison: you know. Maybe it's worth reading reading their email.
Laura Garrison: Pain is bigger than product. So early founders love. You know, we love talking about the product.
Laura Garrison: But your product is not interesting. Sorry. The problem that you solve is what is what is super interesting to to your prospects. So nobody wants a time tracking tool.
Laura Garrison: They want to stop
Laura Garrison: leaking hours that they can't bill for right? So lead with the problem. And if they relate to it, they're going to ask about your solution.
Laura Garrison: Number 3, 1 line proof. So you need to earn belief quickly. And this is something that the gentleman in the front row, I believe, was asking about is you know, one line of proof is going to create that trust, and it doesn't have to be a full case study. So you could just say, Hey, you know
Laura Garrison: we built this after losing 2,000 bucks a month to unbuild time when I was running my own firm. Right? That's credibility. You've been there. You had the problem. You've been in my seat right? Super valuable. Hey? This was used by the team at Raytheon, you know to meet a 6 week prototype deadline. Oh, shit, Raytheon cool! That's awesome, right? So you know, it's going to tell the reader that you've actually done something that you're not guessing at it. But but all you need is that one line? Because that's probably all they're going to read
Laura Garrison: right
Laura Garrison: number 4, low friction. Cta, so this one's really big. You don't want to overcomplicate the ask here, and you actually want them to know what the ask is. Right? So you don't want them to read the message and go all right. That's cool. Now, what what am I supposed to do with this right?
Laura Garrison: I wouldn't do the 30 min ask? I wouldn't ask for their calendar, and I would not send the scheduling link as your 1st message. I would say something like, Are you open to a quick, quick thought. Exchange like, use your own language here, right? But you know, can I ask you how you're handling this? Now
Laura Garrison: keep it casual, you know, respect their time, and make it really easy for them to say.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, sure, you know, I'll have a chat with you on this.
Laura Garrison: So this is your true superpower. This is your founder founders. Voice. So
Laura Garrison: you are a builder. You are not a Bdr. Reading off of a script, so when you sound like the founder, people are going to give you more credit at this stage, right? So you can use that honesty can use that imperfection with a little bit of edge. So one of your cohort members here has a cold, outbound message that says, honestly, fuck the pitch. I just want to gut check on this right? And
Laura Garrison: you know it worked. In that case I'm I'm sure that it's continuing to work, and it works because it's real
Laura Garrison: is there a chance that there's going to be some people that that are turned off by that? Sure. But in this, in this culture, people are turned off by, you know the color of shirt you have on. So why not, you know. Be yourself and be authentic in that. So, you know. Don't write like you're trying to sound professional, right? Like you're trying to start that real conversation. And I thought this message, you know, I hadn't seen it that way before, and I really appreciated that so nice nice job there.
Laura Garrison: So here's your checklist. If you want to screenshot this do I have a trigger? Am I leading with the pain instead of the product?
Laura Garrison: Does the one liner earn? Belief?
Laura Garrison: Is the Cta light? And does it sound like me right
Laura Garrison: outbound? That works isn't magic. It's messaging that's going to respect the time of the buyer. It shows you did your homework, and it feels like something that they would actually respond to here.
Laura Garrison: So keeping the the founder voice, I think it's 2 parts. It's the mindset shift. And then there's the actual tactics and execution to make it happen. So let's talk about the the mindset shift here.
Laura Garrison: Scaling shouldn't mean writing worse messages faster.
Laura Garrison: That's where a lot of people in your seat can get it wrong, so that
Laura Garrison: you know the voice that you have is going to be your superpower, and if you hand it over to a tool, or you dilute it with automation too early. You're not building that trust. So you're just another message in someone's inbox and that they're hitting. You know they're deleting 50 of them before breakfast.
Laura Garrison: So
Laura Garrison: what you're going to scale is your is your structure. But that soul that you bring to it is not what you're going to automate, or, you know, put in someone else's hand. So use the frameworks like Darwinian's 3 by 3, because they let you repeat
Laura Garrison: the format without repeating words. So it's how you stay consistent without sounding like a a bot in this case.
Laura Garrison: And then.
Laura Garrison: you know, personalization is not saying, hey, I saw your post on Linkedin like you've got to kind, or I saw you raised around. You gotta take it a little bit further than that, showing that you understand
Laura Garrison: their world. What's changing?
Laura Garrison: You know? What are they dealing with? And why does that matter now?
Laura Garrison: The other part is going to be the tactics and execution portion. So
Laura Garrison: you know how you scale without losing that edge. I would start with
Laura Garrison: a doc or a notion page anything like that, and I would write down the phrases that you actually use. So
Laura Garrison: you know, get someone to record your pitch at an event. Use your 30. Second explainer that you, you know, would give to an investor
Laura Garrison: the line that you say when someone says, Hey, what like? What do you do? You know? We we probably all have.
Laura Garrison: I know I do a bunch of family gatherings where people just go. What do you do again? Right? And you you have to explain it in a different way. So think about those things.
Laura Garrison: Because I think that's the real, the real gold. Put that in into your messages. Put that into your subject line. Put it into your Cta, into your call openers. Right? Let your voice kind of show in that copy. So subject line question. You know that it it'd be great to just. You know. What am I not seeing in my inbox that this person may, you know, may offer up? Because I think that's going to be a great.
Laura Garrison: great disruptor.
Laura Garrison: Only automate where it makes sense. So you know, use the tooling for your signals
Laura Garrison: to find out tech stack changes things like that, you know, funding and and job changes. But don't let that replace the part where you understand the context.
Laura Garrison: And then the biggest one here is going to be to iterate.
Laura Garrison: You know, we say, when we're building, when we are working from these massive lists, and we've got kind of a large tam.
Laura Garrison: we may say, Hey, I want 250 people to go through us. A set of messages from start to finish, or a sequence from start to finish before you iterate. But I think for the seat that you guys are in. I think every 30 to 50 messages. You should know what's landing and what's falling flat. So
Laura Garrison: you know the the messaging that you're creating here is just like your product. You've got to have.
Laura Garrison: you know, message market fit, if you will, before you can scale it.
Laura Garrison: if it. If if the messaging sounds like you, then you know I think you're I think you're doing it right.
Laura Garrison: in that way.
Laura Garrison: So what happens if if no one replies.
Laura Garrison: right? So let's let's talk about the the follow up piece.
Laura Garrison: This can be a place where you know.
Laura Garrison: you can kind of ghost your own pipeline in this way, or you can overcorrect and start sounding like every other automated sequence, that that you've probably ignored yourself.
Laura Garrison: So most prospects are not going to respond to your 1st email.
Laura Garrison: And it's not because you wrote a bad message, it's because the timing wasn't right. Right. Think about yourself. You're busy. You forgot the pain wasn't super urgent that week.
Laura Garrison: right? And then once it slips below the line on on your inbox. Right? How how quickly does that screen fill up!
Laura Garrison: You totally forget, despite having great intentions, or you know something catching your attention. So here's what does not work
Laura Garrison: anymore. Used to work bumping your last email.
Laura Garrison: That was big. 6 months ago. I would have told you to bump the email or or 9 months ago. Right?
Laura Garrison: Don't bump anymore. Everybody. Everybody's bumping emails.
Laura Garrison: Don't say that you're checking in or circling back. You've probably heard those before. Checking in circling, back, following up, and don't use any of them
Laura Garrison: and repeating the same. Cta is going to get you in trouble as well. So so you've gotta.
Laura Garrison: You gotta change the bait
Laura Garrison: right? You've got to change your approach every single time, and I'll show you exactly what that looks like. So follow up is not about reminding them that you exist. It's about earning that second chance at relevance.
Laura Garrison: So what we recommend is you want to follow up 3 to 5 times across a two-week period?
Laura Garrison: Okay, it's gonna give you enough touches to engage or re-engage without being spammy
Laura Garrison: right, and the key is each message that you send should feel new.
Laura Garrison: So follow up to. I would jot this down if I jotted down anything. Follow up 2 is gonna be
Laura Garrison: a 1 line insight or trend.
Laura Garrison: Right?
Laura Garrison: Follow up 3 reference, some type of social proof or a mini case study.
Laura Garrison: Right. You're changing up your your bait here, follow up 4 could be, you know.
Laura Garrison: a light cta reset like, hey? Is it worth a 10 min conversation, or should I close the loop?
Laura Garrison: Sometimes we'll do an offer for follow up for
Laura Garrison: right? So if I'm reaching out to someone, and I say, Hey, this is what you know. This is what Darwinian does, or actually hey? I saw blank.
Laura Garrison: you know this usually means blank.
Laura Garrison: you know. Is it worth chatting about? Right. The second message may be that
Laura Garrison: you know some type of insight, then we do our social proof. And then our 4th message is is some type of an offer, and I'll say, Hey, we do a totally free go to market audit.
Laura Garrison: and and we create a 30, 60, 90 day plan for you that you can take with you that you can get someone else to do, or you can come back to us when the time is right. Right. You can, diy this thing, whatever. So we give those insights. And so I don't really want to lead with that, because I
Laura Garrison: I just don't right like, I don't want to do 50 of those things, but if it's what's gonna you know, move the needle on a new prospect absolutely. I'll I'll be glad to do that. So think about incorporating some type of value driven offer? Something that's like low input for you. That's not gonna take you a million hours to do.
Laura Garrison: But again, you know, you're you're changing the bait on your on your hook for that
Laura Garrison: And then, you know, interesting.
Techstars 312: Yeah. Why don't we pause for a pause for discussion here, just a little bit. This applies to Linkedin Sales navigator as well when you're kind of doing the messaging. Yeah, okay? And then the second one is
Techstars 312: Oh, shoot. I forgot the second question. Okay, we're not going anywhere. Yeah, no worries
Techstars 312: intro messages when someone reach out to them, because I often find myself when it's totally when someone like say, Oh, contact them from from me
Techstars 312: tend to then say something about me. And
Techstars 312: how do you think about those things right like, oh.
Techstars 312: Chloe told me to reach out to you? Should you keep those things and like talk about problem, but just mentioned the name of the person, how do you think about those that are just?
Techstars 312: Well, okay. So when you're getting introduced, the rules are totally different. Chances are you can screw up one. It doesn't matter because they want to be respectful to the person that introduced you to a certain degree. It depends on. Yeah. It depends on the trust level of the introduction. But
Techstars 312: even if those at least now I don't type much at all, I might say, hey, heard great things. Your background was relevant. We're doing Xyz, very, very short.
Techstars 312: But really, again, you're just trying to get them on the phone like you're trying to get them on a meeting. So like.
Techstars 312: always say great things about you, you're doing some stuff that's relevant. We do this this but very, very short. I'm really excited to meet you properly.
Techstars 312: Can you send some times? Here's a link that's kinda that's kinda how I do it. But- but you probably won't get negative signal. If you do type out too much, I just. I just tend not to do it. But you you chances are you'll still get to chat with the person because they don't want to be disrespectful to whoever sent the intro
Techstars 312: for Linkedin. One thing that you can actually figure out is whether they're looking at your message or not. See their profile like picture, like kind of covering. There. Is there any like? Does that change? Or do you
Techstars 312: like? Because we know that we have something like.
Techstars 312: Yeah, I mean, if you're going that granularly, there's nothing wrong.
Techstars 312: We know they're reading the message, but they're just not replying or like.
Techstars 312: it's a little cringy if you're like, Hey, I noticed you're reading my message. I wouldn't. I wouldn't do that just because it's uncomfortable.
Techstars 312: Sure, right? Okay.
Techstars 312: if they're interested enough to keep reading it.
Techstars 312: Got it? Yeah. You can also escalate- escalate- escalate it like, send an image voice that's on Linkedin, or I can
Techstars 312: right now, because you can't really hack us. So if you shoot a voicemail. They're gonna be like, there you go. And then, boom! You're a real person, and they'll feel a little worse for ignoring, you know, images, links, whatever like stuff like that, I would. I would treat it as like a half
Techstars 312: like half success, like they're not completely ignoring you, but I wouldn't reference it back, because that just feels like
Techstars 312: if people, if you make people feel uncomfortable, they'll tend to feedback.
Techstars 312: So I mean, you can try to be funny with it. I've seen some people try to be coy with it, and that works.
Techstars 312: But but yeah, I would just leave it alone. Yeah.
Techstars 312: Another follow up on. This is like, for
Techstars 312: one thing that we do is like we connect. We try to just like for us. It's like the 1st thing we want to just connect with them like we don't even care about sending any message, and so, like the whole goal is to connect on Linkedin. Isn't that kind of the default. 1st step you send a connection request with a note you could, or you just send a message. Yeah.
Techstars 312: sure, I don't know. Do, Laura, do you see any
Techstars 312: Any difference between just sending a message on Linkedin versus sending a connection request? I don't think it's like a huge
Techstars 312: think. That's right? Yeah, right? Right? And actually, statistically, it's 500.
Techstars 312: Oh, just connect with them. It might increase.
Techstars 312: It says, information
Techstars 312: kind of agree. When someone sends me a note on a connection request. I think they want something from me. And I'm like, I don't wanna respond to this like whatever that doesn't matter what it is just like this is creating more work. This is not just above like anymore. This is an expectation. So
Techstars 312: yeah, there's no, there's no like
Techstars 312: I don't. We've tried all this stuff. Haven't seen one thing where it's like, oh, you gotta do this, and it changes so much on Linkedin. It changed a lot
Techstars 312: so.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, I I'll tell you. The thing that I don't like is
Laura Garrison: When I hit, accept on a connection request. And then I immediately get an email.
Laura Garrison: because, of course, it's hooked up to something. Or I get a message immediately. I do not like that. I don't know if you guys feel the same way, but it's like that's a weird one. And then
Laura Garrison: I think there are some people out there who will like.
Laura Garrison: you know, like Trina. Say, you're you're in my Icp, and I send you a connect request and you accept it. And then I've got some type of reminder. 3 months down the road to reach back out to you and say, like, Hey, Trina, we've been connected for a while now, and it's like, Oh, you've waited, and now that means I should listen to you like I think that's a weird, kind of smarmy way to approach it, too. So the again, like probably more don't do's versus like, Hey, this is what's actually working.
Techstars 312: It's sort of like awkward. I feel like.
Techstars 312: please don't ignore me. If I said.
Techstars 312: Yeah, I find that doesn't really tend to get you anywhere.
Laura Garrison: And I think if I if someone is, you know, going back to the question of
Laura Garrison: you know they saw my message. I know they saw it, but they didn't respond. It's like then
Laura Garrison: the message wasn't the right message right? And then you go back to that. Follow up where you say, hey? The 1st message? And I think I've got actually, it's right here on the screen. The 1st message earns the attention. The second one proves you're not a spammer. The 3rd one earns the meeting
Laura Garrison: right? So if they saw it and they did nothing. That's okay, right? You've you've got to kind of keep going
Laura Garrison: on that front.
Techstars 312: The maximum view don't do a gold style transition.
Techstars 312: Oh, yeah.
Techstars 312: Do you have anything else? Do you go about 5 messages? Is that kind of where you cap it.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, because in you're talking about Linkedin.
Techstars 312: Just in general, I guess.
Laura Garrison: In Linkedin. I think you have to cap it, because if somebody opens the message, and then they see all of your messages, then it kind of feels a little like
Laura Garrison: awkward, you know, like, Wow, you know, unless you've got something super relevant
Laura Garrison: But for email, I mean, I think it's
Laura Garrison: if you're doing a a sequence.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, I would say, 5, 6 emails would be, would be, Max, within that.
Laura Garrison: you know. Couple week period.
Laura Garrison: Then it's like, Okay, you know. Let me put them in a list to to come back in X amount of time, you know. Like, let me assume it's not the right time, and, you know, come back in 6 months, or whatever whatever. When there's another trigger.
Laura Garrison: you can kind of see that.
Techstars 312: Yeah, for the follow up. It says 3 to 5 times like, Is there? Do you guys have a general guideline on like? How many days after each thing. So it's like 2 days and 3 days and 5 days, or just curious. Yeah.
Techstars 312: that sounds about right. Yeah. Couple of days.
Techstars 312: like. Don't do it right right back to back. Don't let it sit for 2 weeks. Kind of thing. I don't think I don't know if you have any thoughts on this, but I don't have like a concrete thing, but that sounds about right. 2 or 3 days between.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, I think you can do closer for email than Linkedin.
Laura Garrison: Some people only check their linkedin once a week.
Laura Garrison: Right? So I tend to space out my Linkedin messages because you don't want them to check it for the 1st time, and you've already messaged them 2 or 3 times.
Laura Garrison: So I tend to let those chill a little bit. But I think what's important is if you're doing multi channel, that you do those things close together.
Laura Garrison: Right? So if your email doesn't get opened.
Laura Garrison: you know, try Linkedin with kind of a distilled version definitely, don't send the same message right? That's ultra passive, aggressive
Laura Garrison: But you know, you could also leave a really short, respectful voicemail if you, if you have a direct line. But what that variation is gonna do within that short timeline is, it's gonna increase your surface area without burning your lead.
Laura Garrison: Right? So if you yeah.
Laura Garrison: frequency, that's it's a great, you know, spreading it out. It's a great way to do it.
Techstars 312: To to the one comment about if you see the message gets read, but then there's no reply like I was saying, escalate like to send a voicemail whatever across the board.
Techstars 312: you know. Be, don't be shy. Pick up the phone. If you have their phone info, leave a voicemail, send them a text, whatever like do like.
Techstars 312: There's no downside. And so few people have the guts to do that. Even now. It's so funny. We're all kind of like back to basics like we run millions of these outbound campaigns all the time. And we're finding that a lot of text-based things are getting more and more flooded because it's easy. It's AI, whatever even making it more relevant, adding more detail
Techstars 312: like you can just crank those out. Personalize really quickly now.
Techstars 312: But
Techstars 312: picking up the phones cuts through, and it's actually doing better now than most of our other channels, because of that
Techstars 312: so we kind of look at it, as all the text based stuff
Techstars 312: sort of gives them something to reply to later, when the timing is right. And what you're trying to do is cut through the noise. Get on their radar, and a phone call is great. We do that voicemail, whatever. And again you might not get a reply for a quarter right like, maybe they don't give a shit right now, but they but you're the right person, and and it's the right thing, you know. We see that all the time. So
Techstars 312: give yourself a little bit of encouragement, even if it looks really bleak, and you're not getting a lot of responses when you're doing outbound, you have to remember conceptually.
Techstars 312: you're in the outbound. You're punching your way onto their calendar, and you have no clue whether the timing is right or not.
Techstars 312: whereas with inbound, obviously, if you had inbound, life is good, it takes a really long time to get a lot of inbound, so you can't really do it right off the bat. But when you have inbound they, you know that it's relevant and timely for them. So it's beautiful. It's fucking awesome. You could just get inbound all day. That's great. But you can't. And when you're doing outbound, you're hoping that maybe timing's right. 90% of time is actually wrong.
Techstars 312: And you'd be surprised at how much you're you don't realize it. But you're snowballing future replies. We'll get replies 6 months later, or or 9 months later, 12 months later, from outbound, because, you know, they weren't stressing about it then. But then, all of a sudden, they're really stressed about it. And they're like, Oh, that guy sent to me.
Techstars 312: So even if you know, someone's the right person, if they're totally ghosting, whatever I usually try to say, keep sending them a ping every month or 2, if you can. If you can find a way to keep a list of long term stuff. Just keep keep in them up. If you know they're the right person.
Techstars 312: Because you guys are founders. You want everything yesterday. But most normal people just live in their lives. They're going to wait until their boss yells at them about something, and their boss maybe, isn't yelling at them about your problem right now, but they will so give yourself a little pound back, even if you're hearing a million no's, you're still accruing
Techstars 312: some equity somewhere, because a lot of those ghosted people will come back to you.
Techstars 312: Yeah, one more sorry.
Techstars 312: How do you balance between?
Techstars 312: You know you can start on Linkedin and go into email talking with them. But like the goal there in messaging is like to really get them to give you the email.
Techstars 312: So that's the email you're like, that's the place where they're like. It's more professional. They're like, Send us calendar stuff. So I don't know if that's like a good tip, or it's like, should we stay within Linkedin and try to get in the calendar? Invite? I'm just trying to figure out the balance between Linkedin and email if they have both contacts. I don't think there's like a magic bullet there, and I also don't think what you sort of alluded to there. I don't think you need to do. You don't need to think that you
Techstars 312: to escalate, to email to get the meeting booked man. I'm getting really into just shooting calendar links on text messages now, and all you gotta do is get them to book the thing, and they'll show up. So if they book on Linkedin that's great. If they click on email. That's great.
Techstars 312: like, what I've started doing now at conferences is I'll just do a little phone tap, and then I'll text them, hey? The next day, hey? Great, great chat to you! Here's my calendar. Link would love to chat, and you'd be surprised most of the time that gets through.
Techstars 312: It's but if I were to go, what's your email? And I chat with them on email, tell them about what we do. And hey, okay, maybe we'll do a meeting like I'd probably lose them. So what you like, you kind of want to just be slinging out that calendar link
Techstars 312: wherever you can, because if they happen to impulsively do it, then you got them.
Techstars 312: That's that's how we look at it. You don't have to escalate or change channels necessarily
Techstars 312: did it in December. And I was like, Okay, I'm getting like
Techstars 312: and like, I love it because I was like, why do I do this all the time, because.
Techstars 312: hey, you'll learn that you'll become closer to them, and they'll open up more because they'll see that you are. You know, they're trying to help out startup, right? So I would definitely say.
Techstars 312: for sale.
Techstars 312: It's exhausting
Techstars 312: again to double tap. People want to be helpful if you frame cold calling around like we're a tiny startup trying to learn. Most people will give you 10 min and like, want to help.
Techstars 312: We've been researching folks like you. You're perfect for what we've been building this for like this is this is worth 10 seconds. Do you mind if I just tell you what it is that we do
Techstars 312: flatter them a little bit. I don't know but but you can tell them, hey? Like I'm obsessed with you like, Come on like I really like. This is exactly why we're building this. And and we solve your problem is this problem you have like, can I tell you a little bit about that?
Techstars 312: I wouldn't worry about that at all. I think what a lot of people a lot of people have this like built in social awkwardness around this stuff, and you have to shed that like you gotta just shake it off like who gives a shit like you want to be successful. You want to fucking. Hear? No 20,000 times like you'll get there because you'll start getting the yeses.
Techstars 312: There's there's almost like a part of your brain. You have to turn off
Techstars 312: for for that to work, and you gotta be a little shameless. The other thing that's really important is that
Techstars 312: in sales. So a lot of you guys are raising money. You're talking Vcs, right? I think.
Techstars 312: it's a very, very, very different game when you're selling. It's, in fact, the things that might work for you when you're fundraising will hurt you when you're selling, and vice versa. So you know to your point, like, if you're talking to a Vc. And you act all persistent and eager, beaver. And you're like, Hey, I've looked up a lot. You probably would turn the Vc. Off because they're like, oh, this guy's like
Techstars 312: probably low value, maybe doesn't have a lot of BC Choices, whatever. But
Techstars 312: that's not how it works in sales, because when you're pitching the Vcs, you're the product. So if you lose face as an individual, that's actually a bad thing like you're losing face. And and you're the product that a Vc. Wants to invest in. So like you want to make sure that you're kind of coming in with stature.
Techstars 312: it still doesn't matter at all like be annoying. It's totally fine because you're just a vehicle for them to get the product. And then the other thing is, if you're that persistent and annoying, imagine how responsive you'll be if there's ever an issue like you're sort of a trustworthy, eager kind of there to please there to please them kind of thing as a sort of servant of their mission like, that's really the mindset. It's very different. So you're allowed to be annoying. You're allowed to be super persistent. You're allowed to lose face a little bit.
Techstars 312: and and if you, if you know, don't do that with Vcs and don't do the Vc. Thing with with customers. The other thing just I rant on this whole thing.
Techstars 312: Don't use your Vc. Language on your customers, either, and this is a massive mistake that everyone does because you're so used to doing this for Vc pitch.
Techstars 312: If you come into a customer thing and start doing the whole Ted Talk like we're transforming the shifting sands of the industry and disrupting blah blah blah, some vp of whatever in fucking middle of nowhere doesn't care at all. They just have a problem that they're sweating about, and they want to fix it so they'll actually find it condescending and rude and and kind of a little off putting. If you do the whole industry transformation, you know.
Techstars 312: kind of thing to them. So- so just, I guess. Clear that. Mic. But yeah, you can. You tell people what's not tell people like this is the
Techstars 312: pitching very heavily. We solve this problem. Do you have this problem? Yeah, I have your number. We're talking like, it's totally fine.
Techstars 312: Yeah.
Techstars 312: How do you handle like, let's say, like their assistant is the gatekeeper of the call so like, Oh, it's like their assistant is like kind of like
Techstars 312: managing like who gets to the actual person.
Techstars 312: for example, like for so oftentimes they have, like a person that's on the call that's just like kind of like the filter. What's your what's your problem?
Techstars 312: That's tough. Sometimes you're just cooked, and you can try again a couple of times. See if you get the timing better, you can. You can tell them like
Techstars 312: this person's relevant, or they like, you have anything like, yeah. This person downloaded from her like
Techstars 312: we've been corresponding like wanted to follow up on something. And when with our correspondence, something like that like that can sometimes cut through
Techstars 312: We also just need to be ready to try again later. Office numbers. Yeah, for this.
Techstars 312: Oh, and if they don't do anything, got it.
Techstars 312: But I think business.
Techstars 312: So you have to like the actual number like for real.
Techstars 312: but point of view, so are there any like similarity between, let's say,
Techstars 312: how you approach a person on a dating app. And this so like, typically on a dating app. What we do is we.
Techstars 312: you say, how are you respond.
Techstars 312: So like what I'm trying to do is take notes, guys.
Techstars 312: long message up front. You send like a small or something like that. And then she responds.
Techstars 312: And then you basically build it up. Do some small talk. Then she give you the give you the number. So I'm using similar techniques on the back end.
Techstars 312: That's exactly right. So that's what I was saying earlier. It's like incremental wins, you know, like, first, st you're trying to get a reply or a match or whatever, and then, you know, and then can you get a little bit of banter, or whatever? Same with same? It's it's yeah, that's exactly right, like you're
Techstars 312: like. Don't go straight to the marriage proposal on the dating app. Do a little bit of whatever. Try to maybe get them to chat with you on Instagram. It's all about the incremental steps, and at each point you're only trying to win that next rung of the ladder. You're not trying to win this like a whole ball game. That's true for this. That's true, for dating, it's true for anything
Techstars 312: so so like right now on Linkedin. What I do is I don't
Techstars 312: talk about my product or anything I just send up. How are you, or hope you're doing well, just to see if they respond.
Techstars 312: And I think that what's happening here is there.
Techstars 312: 1st of all, checking the credibility of who is sending the message. They're checking the the title. And who this person is.
Techstars 312: and that's speaking their curiosity right?
Techstars 312: So like, how far does this go? Is this the right approach?
Techstars 312: Or should I just talk about my product upfront in the 1st message it sends as soon as they accept my connection request. So
Techstars 312: like we were talking about earlier, I think. Just a how are you like? I, personally wouldn't respond to a Linkedin. How are you? It's it's too weird. It's too big. I don't know what you want to ask, but it's really like you want something like, sometimes people try to treat Linkedin like an actual waiting app and actually use it to like reach out in a creepy way. So like, I'm just fundamentally not going to respond to how are you that might not be universal.
Techstars 312: When you say talk about the product. I think we should circle back to what Andrew and Laura were talking about. You talk about the problem and the customers need and like why you're reaching out why you think they could be a good fit? Not just this is what I'm building. It's like, I think I think I've identified a problem. Do you want to talk more? So? I I think you were remote for the 1st part of it, but that, like initial message.
Techstars 312: like the the 3 prompt approach like.
Techstars 312: why, you neither like don't don't talk to your product for a while.
Techstars 312: and then how are you meaning? You might get some folks that are bored and get back to you. I don't. I don't really react to those wouldn't do something that generic. But you know, you could start with the pain or something like use. The formula that Laura was talking about earlier and talk about how
Techstars 312: you solve something that's probably a problem for them would love to chat more like you might as well don't know if that's a lot of
Techstars 312: yeah.
Techstars 312: Do you want to go back to your very 1st email that you sent on behalf of.
Laura Garrison: Do you remember?
Laura Garrison: I'm not.
Techstars 312: Nope.
Laura Garrison: In my deck, or.
Techstars 312: That that email that you showed earlier was like, Hey, we we noticed you.
Laura Garrison: Oh, yeah.
Techstars 312: Yeah, even on Linkedin, that you can use the same stuff and and notice how short this is.
Techstars 312: you could, you could. I would actually probably propose just doing something like this and saying.
Techstars 312: Hey, you're relevant. For X reason
Techstars 312: we solve people. We solve this for
Techstars 312: people. Can I tell you a little more, and then I would just sort of leave it. I wouldn't go into detail about your product. I wouldn't go detail into detail about your credibility, your profiles attached to this anyways.
Techstars 312: I would even throw a little calendar link, see if they
Techstars 312: see if they they bite. But I don't. I wouldn't. I wouldn't put too much. I wouldn't do the banter thing earlier. That's just my own.
Techstars 312: Well.
Techstars 312: I think that's strong dating apps, too like what the hell like I'm not here to ask. Your day is kind of like, hey? You look fun! Let's go have a drink next week like
Techstars 312: that's sort of what this is doing. It's like, Hey, you're relevant. Why don't we do a thing
Techstars 312: like like, can I tell you more?
Techstars 312: like, if you do the the banter thing. It gives them a reason to check out, and they don't necessarily like a lot of people don't really chit chat on Linkedin.
Laura Garrison: Of time. Waster.
Techstars 312: Yeah, yeah.
Techstars 312: have a question about the signature. The email signature. I see, this one is relatively simple, simpler, shorter is better. Or what's the any guidance here.
Techstars 312: Yeah. Do you have anything on the email signature? Laura.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, no, but I'll tell you I mean a actually this came out of my just
Laura Garrison: my regular inbox, but in cold outbound. I use no logo and no links at all, because links will land you in spam, and even a link or a picture in your signature counts as a link. So I just don't want to take that risk.
Laura Garrison: So you just need a very simplified
Laura Garrison: signature. That's specific to cold outbound. Now, if it's people, you know.
Laura Garrison: you can have as long of a signature as you want, but
Laura Garrison: and as much information as you want. But for cold outbound no links, no no pictures.
Techstars 312: Beautiful.
Laura Garrison: Living in the body.
Techstars 312: Yeah.
Techstars 312: Oh, for me, like one.
Techstars 312: if you get an email from someone with signatures and have like a logo or stuff. And it just looks kind of like.
Techstars 312: yeah, low 5.
Techstars 312: I don't raise it
Techstars 312: so I don't know. For me. I can make this perception of like if it's called logo.
Techstars 312: maybe links to website. But it's just kind of like
Techstars 312: of sales and eventually growth within the company.
Techstars 312: Yeah, for sure. I mean, look.
Techstars 312: run some experiments. We just find that you're in a battle with the spam filter. If you're doing this in a in any kind of scale.
Techstars 312: and sometimes you gotta kind of probe. Where that is, you'll know if you're getting in the spam filter because you'll get 0 like 0 0 traction and and no opens like that's 1 thing where opens are useful, because if it's hard 0, then you're not even getting there. If it's some number, the number's probably wrong. But at least you know that something's happening with it. So you can. You can try some things. But our experience has just been that
Techstars 312: the the most stripped down, the more stripped down the better for that reason. And it sucks because you're right. I mean, you're gonna lose some people because the signature maybe, doesn't look that robust.
Techstars 312: but I don't think that's a that's not a huge detractor. The bigger detractor is getting is not getting.
Laura Garrison: Yeah.
Techstars 312: Wanna send to the same
Techstars 312: mean. That's why we call. There's like so many reasons why you just do other channels. Yeah, if you you're right. I mean, if you're in the spam filter, you're gonna stay there
Techstars 312: going out to it. So that way
Techstars 312: of the stakeholder and learn more. So learn more.
Techstars 312: so you can use the form for your name
Techstars 312: so that way some of it's using my name
Techstars 312: because I don't want her. My domain to be licensed files in the past.
Techstars 312: You don't want them, but like, if it's just like, if you have a couple, then you can use one, get out of it
Techstars 312: instantly is another one that I use for warming. That's a pretty good instantly.
Techstars 312: or, yeah, they help with like warm. They auto do the warm stuff. Get the warm outreaches, set the number that you send every day. It even separates the amount of time that you spend them like. It's pretty good, but I like it. So yeah. And the other thing is, someone was alluding to this. But like, you usually want to set up a couple other domains and like you do it off the domain. So if you really fuck up, your domain isn't
Techstars 312: damage like we've just learned so much of this like some for a while even our domain messages to our friends were like going into spam messages because we were doing too much of this. So
Techstars 312: you have to be careful. Use other domains do proper warming.
Techstars 312: Be careful not to not to permit. Yeah, have you tested this cold email with the calendar?
Techstars 312: Yeah, I think Laura's actually right. If there's a link in there, it hurts, it hurts your deliverability pretty bad. So again, like this one's all you're trying to get is a reply. Once you got the reply. It's game on.
Techstars 312: All you gotta do is reply. And say, Yeah, tell me more.
Techstars 312: You're probably not gonna get a meeting scheduled on the 1st hold email. Anyways.
Techstars 312: if you did, that'd be amazing. But you know.
Techstars 312: but once you have a dialogue, then, man, change your signature. Put all the cool stuff in there. Yeah, I tried putting a headshot in the signature just to show like, this is a real human. Yeah, that helpful or hurtful.
Techstars 312: I think you can get away with one image right, Laura. I mean you have the Darwinian logo in there.
Laura Garrison: Well, I just mentioned earlier. I just did this as an example from my inbox. I would never
Laura Garrison: like my setup, for cold outbound is through a different inbox. It's not through my regular inbox, and that signature has no like through instantly. It has no links, no images. You don't even want to do. I mean, it's up to you, but
Laura Garrison: we don't. We don't use it, not not recommended.
Techstars 312: You're not saying that I can create multiple
Techstars 312: like emails, disposable emails with my primary domain. Yeah, we call burner domains. I mean, companies have tons.
Laura Garrison: But you don't want to do it with your primary, or did I hear you right.
Techstars 312: Yeah, you don't want to use your primary like, whatever your homepage and your main email is all connected to you don't want to use that if you can avoid it, especially if it's really about volume. If you're gonna do volume, then be really careful. If you're doing 10 a day to people that are really crafted. You'll be fine.
Techstars 312: But if you're gonna start doing anything automated and anything.
Techstars 312: maybe a hundred a day or more is that
Techstars 312: first.st And what warming is is that if there's this whole like
Techstars 312: underground world of ways to make this work, so you get a bunch of domains.
Techstars 312: You have the domains redirect your homepage, so at least they still can see your homepage. If they go to the email, you set up email accounts on that domain. And then you use a warming service. And what a warming service does
Techstars 312: is it starts sending what looks like regular emails for a while and builds a little bit of history. It takes a few weeks, and it tells Google or outlook, or any of the big email servers that it's nothing to see here, you know, it's just regular email set up. And then and then you can start ramping up the volume from there. Pretty standard practice. Now, like you really can't get anywhere without doing that.
Techstars 312: If you're gonna use volume and automation.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, and I'll mention something there. The shortcut that we're using right now is, I think I heard somebody mention it, but it's instantly. AI,
Laura Garrison: and they will. You can either take your existing secondary domains that you own and hook them up, or you can just. It'll just give you a list of open domains like.
Laura Garrison: you know, that are available. You select them. You've you want like 3, like we do a minimum of 3. Ideally, you want 4 domains, because you need to be able to kind of titrate between those. If you see spam rates come coming up. You need to let a domain, cool down a little bit and and use another one, and what you want to keep going through the domain instead of stopping to use it altogether is just very low volume.
Laura Garrison: And so that's kind of that toggling or titrating between domains, as you see, and then per domain you want like
Laura Garrison: 2 or 3 addresses, and
Laura Garrison: instantly can do it all in one place, and it's really it's probably the most affordable way to to do all that. Now you don't own it so I don't.
Techstars 312: The worst.
Laura Garrison: When you try to move those out, so maybe you want to purchase the domains yourself and then hook them up. But either way instantly. Is the way to go
Laura Garrison: right now?
Techstars 312: This is all stuff that, like you can do some pathfinding at a low scale first.st That's probably the best idea. I don't know how you're all at different stages of earliness, but you know, like mail, and then scale it right like, do some manual stuff lower volume. See if you can start to get some traction with it and then start bringing in the war machine.
Techstars 312: And do set up a volume tool or something like that. You have to spend some money on licenses and
Techstars 312: data and stuff like that.
Techstars 312: because you'll need to build lists of thousands of people, and you'll need to have a way to send all these automated things and stuff like that. So it's it's A-. It's a whole
Techstars 312: factory that you gotta build. But in the early days. Just see what works at a lower scale, and then
Techstars 312: look at all the other stuff.
Laura Garrison: Sorry. I heard another question.
Techstars 312: Yeah, they're smaller scale tools, like superhuman and streak, I think, can mail merge. But space it out over time like they can spread out like
Techstars 312: your bulk emails over the course of a day. So it doesn't flare up as like a very low, superhuman and street.
Techstars 312: It's like Street Gmail STRE. A, K.
Techstars 312: And how are we for time? Sorry. At 11 I do have to run for something we can say. Laura could probably say a little bit longer, but we got about 20 min left, so.
Laura Garrison: Yeah.
Techstars 312: You wanna keep rocketing through the.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, let's type our boots here and
Laura Garrison: so I guess wrapping up, you know.
Laura Garrison: following up is not being annoying. It's showing that you care enough about the pain to try to solve it
Laura Garrison: with a better angle, and that's what's going to earn you trust?
Laura Garrison: Let me go back to where we were
Laura Garrison: on the deck. Here we go.
Laura Garrison: So let's talk about how to actually improve the outbound, because your 1st version is not going to be your best version. We were just talking about that like figure. You know the path finding piece. So what matters
Laura Garrison: is what you do with the signal that you're getting so outbound just like your product should live in a learning loop.
Laura Garrison: That means you send something.
Laura Garrison: You measure the reaction you adjust, and then you repeat, based on that. So
Laura Garrison: best in batches of 30 to 50 messages before you make decisions. If you change
Laura Garrison: email, or you know, change your messaging every 5 emails. Then you're chasing noise because you're not gonna know what what's working and what's not working. If you wait
Laura Garrison: to send 500 emails, you've missed the mark, and you've burned half of your list already. So that sweet spot is like 50, you know, 50 messages or so. You want to track.
Laura Garrison: the key metrics, open rate
Laura Garrison: we've already talked about. Why, that's for testing only reply rate and meeting rate. So those are the the key metrics that that matter. And then think of those like a funnel. Right? So if you're not getting opens.
Laura Garrison: or that open rates under 40%, then the problem is going to be your subject line, or maybe the reputation of your domain. Don't ever do cold outbound from your primary domain. Ever
Laura Garrison: question.
Techstars 312: Yeah, I had questions around tracking. And like all your metrics, because sometimes you like to reach out only and you reach out on email. Sometimes you call so it
Techstars 312: it feels a bit hard to track everything. And then also have, like, okay, what is working well, like, what is the email from. So I'm wondering, what's your system for everything? Yeah, I mean, if you if you get a tool, a lot of it can be unified. So if you get like an outreach
Techstars 312: like it's called Outreach, outreach.com, whatever they can put all those tasks into one thread, and then you can like track the campaign. So you can have a Linkedin touch in there. You can have a call like call touches in their email touches whatever.
Techstars 312: if you're not gonna do it all in a tool. You kind of just have to use a spreadsheet. It's really annoying, but
Techstars 312: that's that's the trade off really
Techstars 312: like it. It is. It is
Techstars 312: one of those things where organization is really necessary, because the human brain can't have 500 conversations at once. You know what I mean. So you kind of have to, either. If you're gonna diy and duct tape it, then
Techstars 312: you spreadsheet and find a way to organize it, and there's a lot of templates out there for that. But if you can spend 2, 300 bucks a month, then get one of these tools. Outreach is the one that is sort of old standard ish. I mean, the only problem with that is, it's usually like a minimum of 5 seats. And it's like 200 bucks a month per seat, or something like that. So for very early stage, it's kind of tricky. What are the what are the free sort of earlier ones that we use. Laura. We've used a couple.
Techstars 312: This is the sales team, right?
Techstars 312: Mean, I teach a whole.
Laura Garrison: Class on running running an early business off of the free version of Hubspot. Right? Because you can create some custom properties. And you've got some pretty good visibility. I think the question you're asking is about attribution.
Laura Garrison: and
Laura Garrison: you can. You can look at a lead, and you can say, hey! Where did this lead come from? Like the 1st time I heard of this person was off of Linkedin. So the lead came from Linkedin, but then I ran into them at a conference. So now they're a conference lead, or then I saw them at an event, and they're an event. Lead what you really want to know is not where the lead came from. But what was the communication channel that caused that lead to become an opportunity? Because you can look back and see, hey, this has been an omni-channel approach right? But what's the thing that pushed it over the edge?
Laura Garrison: So when you create the deal right. When you will back up a little bit, you get a you get an opportunity right? So up until
Laura Garrison: they become an opportunity. It's just one sided. It's a crush, right? The person that's not returned. But as soon as you get that 1st date you're like sweet. I've got an opportunity here. That's when it becomes a real deal that should be in your pipeline. Right? They know it, you know it. Now, what's going to happen from here? Who knows? Right, you may not get married, but there's interest on both sides, and that constitutes a deal. And I want to know
Laura Garrison: what caused that to become a deal.
Laura Garrison: Was it an email? Was it a Linkedin message? What was the thing that they responded to? Even though there's been other messages or channels that I've been pursuing so communication channel is an important metric to, or an important object to be able to track.
Techstars 312: And this is just quick question for sales. Navigator, is there any tool that you guys use to like capture all the like, you know, response rates and all that stuff, because I haven't found one yet, and I'm just curious to know.
Techstars 312: Does it track like like open the open rates reply, rates for Linkedin sales.
Techstars 312: I don't think it's navigator forgot about it.
Laura Garrison: For 2.
Techstars 312: Nice.
Laura Garrison: Andrew, what tool?
Laura Garrison: Yeah, we've used it.
Techstars 312: Yeah, oh, yeah, yeah, cool.
Laura Garrison: Okay.
Techstars 312: Okay.
Techstars 312: Yeah. I wouldn't. I mean.
Laura Garrison: I wouldn't worry too much about.
Laura Garrison: It's hard to say right? Like I guess you that that can live in the tool. And I wouldn't worry about having to bring it into your Crm.
Laura Garrison: so yeah, these these key metrics make sure that you're tracing reply rate can be difficult if it's not email, or if it's not messaging, right? So that may be, that may be a little more difficult
Laura Garrison: but basically diagnosing that just like you would your your product? Right? So I think we were here. If you're not getting replies, then you know, you've probably got a messaging problem.
Laura Garrison: Weak trigger.
Laura Garrison: You know your pain's not sharp, your Cta is too vague. If you're getting replies, but no meetings, then your messaging might be getting curiosity, but not conviction. So you're not connecting the dots between what their pain is and what value you're going to bring.
Laura Garrison: So you've got to kind of run your experiments lightly.
Laura Garrison: You know A, B test your subject lines, but not your entire seats. Right? Kind of start at the top. Once your open rates are there, then kind of focus on the next thing. Try 2 different ctas, not 5 at one time. So you want a clean signal, and and if you test too many things. You're going to get chaos instead of a clean signal.
Laura Garrison: So test one at a time, track the result, move forward to the next thing, and then, just like with your product. What matters most is that learning velocity? So the faster you test and adjust the faster you're going to hit on a message that's going to build pipeline.
Laura Garrison: So
Laura Garrison: just ready for some live feedback, for from your messaging, if you wanna opt out and you submitted a message. Now is the time. I don't know if Chloe will let you opt out or not. But, this is all in, you know the
Laura Garrison: the not just like a tear down just to to tear down, or for the sake of it. These are
Laura Garrison: kind of a coachable exercise right where you know everyone here in this room is doing the hard thing.
Techstars 312: How you learn.
Laura Garrison: Faster than everyone else is by getting the direct feedback. And you know, putting it into practice right? So what I've put together is a way to show for each of those that submitted a message. What's working? What could hit harder? And then maybe a few like
Laura Garrison: surgical tweaks, if you will that could drive some better replies and book more meetings. Given the limited information. Right? Like, you guys are the experts. So just know that, you know, if if I miss the mark on something in terms of what you actually do, you know, give me a little grace. There, I see a hand up.
Techstars 312: Oops.
Techstars 312: Yeah, just 1st of all, because you review everything and like reading everything through. You were like, okay, those guys did not understand like things. Or or maybe there's a thing that repeats themselves among a lot of us. I think that would be helpful.
Laura Garrison: Can you summarize that? I've just had a hard time.
Techstars 312: Yeah, he's just saying, are there any like universal things that you saw across all of them? Maybe we can start there.
Laura Garrison: Yes. So yeah, universally. I think the patterns that came up even in the strongest messages were
Laura Garrison: hold on. I think I could just
Laura Garrison: go there. Hold on! I have a slide for it. I'm gonna I'm gonna skip way forward.
Laura Garrison: There we go! I'll move this in the deck for next time. If this is what you guys are interested in on the front, on the front side. So across. Sorry there's maybe something right in front of the speaker that's making like a really loud
Laura Garrison: noise on my end. I'm not sure sure what?
Laura Garrison: Okay, can you guys hear me?
Laura Garrison: Okay, cool. It got really quiet over here. I'll I'll you have to.
Laura Garrison: Maybe when that gets resolved you can unmute but common messaging across all of the the teardowns that I did, I think missing a clear trigger.
Laura Garrison: the pain being too soft or generic.
Laura Garrison: kind of bearing the value a little bit. The Cta may be a little unclear, and then a little too polished. Right? I'll take harvest AI out of the the running on that one because theirs was was super founder voice. So this is what
Laura Garrison: I think all of the messaging had in common. And again, these were not bad messages at all. There was no cringe factor for me, or I'm like, Oh, gosh! How am I gonna deliver this? This news? Right? This is so bad they weren't. They were good messages. But I think, as I mentioned, these, these tweaks are surgical, right? They're they're small.
Laura Garrison: you know. Try it and and see what happens. I'm gonna flip back to the to the beginning. Did that answer the question? I think I'm still muted, or the
Laura Garrison: the okay cool. Thanks for the thumbs up. Is that you, Chloe?
Laura Garrison: Alright amazing! All right, I'm gonna flip back to the start.
Laura Garrison: Exordi. Am I saying that? Right?
Laura Garrison: Alright? Let's let's dive in I'm I'm gonna let you guys kind of read messaging on your own. And I'm gonna give a little bit of commentary on each of these take a screenshot, and then I'm giving like a try this after that. Right? So.
Laura Garrison: Carlo, so
Laura Garrison: you're 1st up here. This message, I think, really nails a few key elements. It feels personal.
Laura Garrison: It's got a warm tone. And I think you've really got some good social proof here.
Laura Garrison: Okay, so those are kind of the the strengths of this, I would say, to sharpen this structurally, I think it wanders a little bit before we get to the value. I bet you also, if you guys had, if we did like a 15 min exercise or 10 min exercise for you to rewrite these messages, you would probably have come up with something similar, considering the the framework that that we've gone through. So the opportunity here is going to be to lead with the insight and make the pain a little bit sharper.
Laura Garrison: so instead of warming them up per se, we want them to lean in
Laura Garrison: so the a clear why, now is kind of what I've
Laura Garrison: suggested. And I think that's gonna remove this message from like, okay, this is interesting right to, hey? I'm gonna reply right now.
Laura Garrison: And then I think this part the no stress. I think it lets them off the hook easy. It's kind of like you book a meeting, and then you may say like, but if you need to move it, no problem, right? It's like, don't you know? Don't. Don't let them off the hook so easy. So great great things about this messaging. And then again, I'm not gonna go through this, but I think this has a lot of the qualities of your original message with just a couple of tweaks, and then you still see where you get that F shape
Laura Garrison: without, even though it's a little bit longer.
Laura Garrison: So, and I can send these to you, Chloe, as well if if you want, so I will move on to the next, since we're a little short on time, is it? Is making auto easy. Do you go by? May? Does the does the product go by? May.
Techstars 312: Yeah, sorry if we skip. I need to hop at 11.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, no problem. And I've got a little bit of time. If you guys are good. My! My next call got moved.
Laura Garrison: bye, Andrew. So me anyways right?
Laura Garrison: Alright. So here we go. So I thought this messaging was super relatable. Everyone has felt this pain before, so I think, Vivian, you come off as helpful, not Pushy. And I think that is the right
Laura Garrison: tone. So so nice job. There, I think the next step is to go from. Oh, wow! This is a really nice idea to
Laura Garrison: Oh, wow! This is this is like, really for me, you know. Maybe add in a trigger related to their job or their lifestyle.
Laura Garrison: Tighten up your cta a little bit. So I came up with with this which is just a little a little tweak on that, and then, instead of happy to share, I would say.
Laura Garrison: Do you want me to send a quick breakdown?
Laura Garrison: Right? So I think this message is like an 8,
Laura Garrison: and with a with a little bit of room to to grow there. So there's.
Techstars 312: Guys. I gotta I gotta get. But keep keep doing this work. I left my car there. If any of you guys want to get in touch. Take a break or take one. Thanks, guys. We'll see you soon.
Laura Garrison: Alright
Laura Garrison: The next one is for really.
Techstars 312: I thought that.
Laura Garrison: Message had really great, or I think that the product has a really great edge.
Techstars 312: Office.
Laura Garrison: Are we good?
Techstars 312: Can you go with office first.st
Laura Garrison: Can I go? Where.
Techstars 312: Do you try harvest first? st
Laura Garrison: You want me to move on to harvest? 1st
Laura Garrison: question for you.
Laura Garrison: Alright, harvest.
Techstars 312: Yeah, yeah.
Laura Garrison: Alright I. This message is gold as kind of a personal favorite. I think it's
Laura Garrison: humble. I think it's a clear like.
Laura Garrison: Hold on! I'm out of. I'm out of order. Hold on.
Laura Garrison: Nope. I know we're give me a sec, all right. All right. This one strong founder voice, absolutely high credibility. I think it's got a real problem. In other words, the Pro. The message doesn't have a real problem. The problem is real and then you've got that authenticity bomb right? Like you're just saying, Hey, you know what? Fuck the pitch? I'm just. Gonna I'm just, gonna you know, go from the the gut here. So
Laura Garrison: this message is is close to elite in my mind. I think it can sharpen just a little bit. So lead with the pain instead of like the warm anecdote. I would
Laura Garrison: just drop the problem, like, you know, like a punch, most data teams stall because
Laura Garrison: no one has the time to structure unstructured inputs. Right? That's your hook
Laura Garrison: and then your seat. I did 2 for this one, but I think the Cta. I think
Laura Garrison: the gut check is really cool. Make it a little bit more actionable. So are you open to, you know, comparing quick notes, you know, on the topic.
Laura Garrison: So that was my feedback, for for harvest
Laura Garrison: all good else have to run.
Techstars 312: No, it looks like we're all here.
Laura Garrison: Back up to really, okay. Cool.
Laura Garrison: So I think this product has a really cool edge. Faster closings, no appraisal. Big time savings money saving for the right buyer.
Laura Garrison: I think the order of this message may be holding you back a little bit, so we get the feature set before we feel the win.
Laura Garrison: so I would flip that around. I would I would lead with your outcome.
Laura Garrison: and then I would explain the the how
Laura Garrison: and then kind of give your Ct, the Cta a little bit of a a modern or a more modern twist. So stop by the office. I think you're probably getting at like, hey? I'm local to you, right? But it may feel a little bit legacy. So hey, is it worth a 10 min call or coffee right to see if it may, if this may fit the deals that you have.
Laura Garrison: So that's probably a good a good thing, and then I would definitely mention Fannie Mae. I just wouldn't.
Laura Garrison: Link it out.
Laura Garrison: because what happens is another reason, even before this kind of was a spam concern is, if you're linking Fannie, Mae.
Laura Garrison: and if you're doing this even in your when you're in the sales cycle.
Laura Garrison: make sure it links to something at like a landing page on your website. Because what happens is you're you're pulling someone out of your email or your message or your, you know, interaction. And you're sending them somewhere else. And now you've lost them right. How do they get back to that place? And then they're gonna go! Oh, cool! Let me look at all. The other people that are that are on Fannie Mae's website, right? And I did the exact same thing. I got lost because I'm like
Laura Garrison: looking around right? So that's just kind of a a word of of caution to everyone. If you ever link an article, make sure it's like housed on your website on a landing page or something like that, so that you can keep them back in the loop with the Cta right underneath that
Laura Garrison: good message, though neural defend. This is the one that I thought was
Laura Garrison: really humble and clear, and think the genuine curiosity
Laura Garrison: really played. Well here, I think that you've got an opportunity to crank up some urgency and some specificity. So deep fake fraud is exploding
Laura Garrison: right? So I would say that I would give the founder a reason to see themselves in the conversation, and then I would also tighten up the Cta
Laura Garrison: instead of hey? Can I ask you a few questions? I would say, you know. Hey! Do you mind if I want run a quick scenario by you, or something like that? So it's a little faster, a little more concrete there.
Laura Garrison: Good message, legalese. I love this name, by the way, so
Laura Garrison: I think this really captures some great like founder to founder empathy.
Laura Garrison: There's a lot of credibility in the story. There's
Laura Garrison: sincerity in the tone that's being used, and I think the outcome's really clear.
Laura Garrison: So I think this is another one where specificity could could kind of be let leveled up. So the word admin to me is kind of vague. You could say like
Laura Garrison: missed billables or lost hours, you know, logging time at midnight, or something like that, but some type of pain that
Laura Garrison: that people are going to be able to feel
Laura Garrison: and then I would sharpen up the ask. So instead of happy to chat.
Laura Garrison: you know. Is it worth 10 min to avoid
Laura Garrison: losing another week to tracking software, or something like that.
Laura Garrison: you know, might have asked 2 questions about your billing process. So now they know what they're saying. Yes, to yeah. Cool. Yeah. You can ask me 2 questions about my billing process. No problem.
Laura Garrison: And the last one that was submitted was optifab.
Laura Garrison: I think this is another great example of a of a technical founder voice done. Well, I think it's respectful. I think it's pain aware. And I think it's
Laura Garrison: really positioned as discovery. Not not a pitch so well well done there. I would personalize the outreach I would definitely dig into. Hey? Why this person, and why this moment?
Laura Garrison: And then I think there's a typo. So I would, especially in the technical industries those kind of slips can can cost trust. I have heard where people say that they
Laura Garrison: intentionally put a typo typo or like a a missed letter in a message. That's a templatized message, and I don't think you've done this, but I'm just bringing it up. Because it makes it look more authentic. But I actually don't agree with that because I think that the message should, you know especially
Laura Garrison: you know, in the Sas space it should just be.
Laura Garrison: you know, on point in terms in terms of those things, so I would I would stay away from that.
Laura Garrison: add a little bit of flexibility to your Cta. Not. Everyone wants to do a 20 min call so you could do like a really fast Async version as well.
Laura Garrison: You know. Hey, we can just swap some messages here, you know, this feels really. And I and I tried to give you guys some variety in the Ctas where each message didn't seem like the same exact thing. You know, example over and over.
Laura Garrison: So that is optifab. Nice nice work there.
Laura Garrison: So we talked about what's common among those teardowns. The last 2 things we have to go through. I think we have 2 slides left. One is
Laura Garrison: your outbound self check, and then the last one is, how do you know if it's working? So this is the the self check. And this is kind of a
Laura Garrison: you know.
Laura Garrison: If you rolled up all of this into one. This would be a good, a good thing to check through, so your outbound doesn't have to be complicated. This can be a quick gut check before you send a cold message. So if you're saying yes to all of these, then you're in the right place. Use the 3 by 3. Check your messages against the 5 elements, build your own framework for that, and then go send better cold emails this week. If you've already sent 10 awesome, you know. Send 10 more and make every single one of them.
Laura Garrison: You know 1% sharper.
Laura Garrison: Last slide. Is it working?
Laura Garrison: So
Laura Garrison: you know you've sent some messages you followed up. You've iterated. But how do you know that it's working like
Laura Garrison: what's good? What's meh what's broken? So let's let's get tactical on this. So the point is.
Laura Garrison: I wouldn't assume that it's the channel. I wouldn't say like cold email sucks. Linkedin's not not the right tool, right like
Laura Garrison: cold calling is terrible. If no one's replying, I would always start with the message.
Laura Garrison: You know your your pathfinding on this. So
Laura Garrison: if you book one meeting for every 20 to 35 cold messages you send.
Laura Garrison: This is exceptionally good for early stage founder led outbound.
Laura Garrison: This isn't scaled. Sdr. Output. You're a founder with a you know you don't don't have the massive list or the big team behind you or this massive brand recognition.
Laura Garrison: People are not only replying. But they're agreeing to meet with you based on your cold message.
Laura Garrison: Right? So that means that you're hit, that you're hitting on something real.
Laura Garrison: You don't need a 15% conversion rate. You need consistency
Laura Garrison: enough signal to start building that repeatable motion.
Laura Garrison: Right? So the real unlock is
Laura Garrison: if you're getting consistent, replies from the same type of persona, or use case. That's your early message market fit, if you want to call it that, that's how we build pipelines at Darwinian.
Laura Garrison: So if you look at the flip side, if you're getting under a 2% response rate, don't panic. I think
Laura Garrison: you know ye don't keep doing the same thing is is is my advice there. So
Laura Garrison: that's a signal to rework your message. That's a signal to look at your trigger again. Look at your pain statement. Check your Cta, is it too heavy?
Laura Garrison: Is it too vague, you know?
Laura Garrison: Fix your messaging before you blame the audience or blame the tool, basically. So 3 to 5% meeting rate conversion from cold. That is elite status. So don't don't let anyone tell you that that's just okay. It's not. You are breaking through the noise. If you're if you're if you've got that type of reply rate.
Laura Garrison: so I'll I'll wrap up with this. I'll say the strongest signal isn't just a reply. It's going to be consistency.
Laura Garrison: So if you're getting that, repeat interest from the same title, same pain
Laura Garrison: or same moment, you're not guessing anymore. That's putting you like squarely in the strike zone.
Techstars 312: Do the rates also apply to similar between Linkedin and email? Or are there like differences in like the 3 5% or any bills.
Laura Garrison: You know, it's a good question. I actually don't know the answer to that, because
Laura Garrison: we don't. We don't track
Laura Garrison: Oh, I guess I guess they do track it. But I but I don't know the answer to that. It's a good question. I'll find out.
Techstars 312: I saw a few extra games. Is everyone kind of good
Techstars 312: love to get your feedback on like. Personally, I don't know if, like you have time after to like like. There are certain messages. If you have tomorrow.
Techstars 312: Okay.
Laura Garrison: Yeah, do you? Wanna just send them? I'll put my email up if you wanna just send them to me.
Laura Garrison: And then we can just set up a few minutes to go through. I can take a look and and see what you got.
Techstars 312: Okay.
Laura Garrison: Yeah. Happy to do that.
Trina Das: Hey? I also wanted to ask you.
Trina Das: if we are like, you know, getting introd by someone else. Is there some specific tips you want to give us. Regarding writing that mail
Trina Das: like if it is like a warm intro by someone instead of a cold outreach.
Laura Garrison: Yeah,
Laura Garrison: so number one, it'd be great if that person sent you the message to look at before you sent before it got sent out right, and you had a chance to kind of tweak some things. So if that's the case great, and you can kind of create
Laura Garrison: this messaging it within that context, right? That.
Trina Das: Sometimes I would give the message, and then the person will forward it, or, like, you know, add something of his, and then send it over.
Laura Garrison: Yeah. And then are they copying you on the message as well.
Trina Das: Yes, most of the times. Yes.
Laura Garrison: Okay, perfect.
Laura Garrison: I mean, I if you can prep your the person that's sending the email, that's great, because it it'd be cool if at the end they just said, Hey, I'll let you 2 take it from here, you know. Like
Laura Garrison: list, the prospect first, st hey? You know. Hey, Tom, let me introduce you to Trina. This is what, how she's helped us, and I think it would really help you. And here's why, right? And then, hey, Trina, let me introduce you to Tom.
Laura Garrison: Tom is at this company, and he just had this happen right? And so you're taking that frame of why, now, why, me? Why, now, you know, and the problem that's being solved, and you are just kind of reframing it in that way. Also, if someone's making an intro for you, and you write the intro for them. Then all that. Then you're making it easier for them to copy and paste right? So I'll let you 2 connect. I would go straight for the meeting at that point when you respond. If if someone is is connecting you to someone else, you're
Laura Garrison: you're communicating now out of borrowed credibility and trust.
Laura Garrison: Right? So I think.
Laura Garrison: I think that is, you just go straight for the meeting, you know, and and the way you ask for the meeting is, you say, hey, Tom, are there a few times that work well for you?
Laura Garrison: Or let me let me link my calendar to make it. If if that's easier for you, right? And then you're not assuming, because you'll do the work right. It's it's kind of a pain when someone sends you their calendar link, because then you have to pull their calendar up and then look at your calendar and play the matching game
Laura Garrison: right? So as the person that's booking the meeting
Laura Garrison: or that wants the meeting, you should take as much of that lift off of them as you can. So if they just say, Hey, I'm available. These are 3 times I'm available. You're gonna make it work right like you're gonna figure out a way to do it.
Laura Garrison: Yeah. Good question.
Techstars 312: Supposed to be here like 25 days timing of follow ups
Techstars 312: on email. I know it's like 3 to 5, 1014 days that 1st follow up should always be like no sooner than
Techstars 312: so for email, Laura was saying, 2 to 3 days between emails waiting longer on Linkedin because some people don't check Linkedin every day like some people might check it once a week, and they don't want to open it to a wall of messages 2 to 3 days.
Techstars 312: sometimes more than once. You can pull out the very next day once, and then
Techstars 312: so think about the like opening habits of your target like, how much time do commission managers spend?
Techstars 312: So you might want to slow down a little bit more if people aren't like on email all day, every day
Techstars 312: awesome.
Techstars 312: Get the deck later, and you can always go back to the recording, awesome
Techstars 312: Laura. Thank you so much. Really appreciate it.
Laura Garrison: Absolutely. Yeah. Great to see you guys.
Laura Garrison: Nice to thank you all.